---
post_id: 4
layout: post
title: "Virgilio Project"
date: 2020-03-13 6:00:00 -0500
categories: publications
figures: assets/posts/virgilio
lang: en
---


In this post I will try to figure out one of the features that would like to develop for the Virgilio Project. Virgilio is my implementation of an early warning system that will use a network of weather stations, principally rain gouges, to get the real time precipitation data and estimate the intensity of the current rain event compared to that certain location. This estimation is going to determine the rareness of such event and therefore how dangerous would be for that particular place, all this on real time.

To achieve this is necessary to integrate three things, the first one is the live monitoring of the rain data, the second one is the calculation of the return period (rareness) of that current event and the third one will be the triggering of an alert if the rareness of the event overcomes a point that will be defined for each of the different locations so to summarize Virgilio integrates:

1. [Live Monitoring of the Rain Data](#Live-Monitoring-of-The-Rain-Data)
1. [Calculation of return period](#Calculation-of-the-Return-Period)
1. [Alert Triggering System](Alert-Triggering-System)
    
<p>&nbsp;</p>

# Live Monitoring of The Rain Data

For monitoring the rain data I will start by monitoring [PWS](https://www.wunderground.com/pws/about) and try to generate plots based on that data.

## Plotting Data

I have browsed for some libraries that would be useful to plot the graphs and I have founded [plotly](https://plot.ly/javascript/is-plotly-free/) an opensource plotting library that could be definitely implemented to create the graphs.


# Calculation of the Return Period

There are some official intensity duration frequency IDF plots that could be applied to estimate the rareness of a given event. however is necessary to create numeric tables for each of those plot to make them usable for the AI that is going to keep track of the events.

# Alert Triggering System

This could be some of the most simple part of the EWS but I think is the most important. on a fundamental basis is just to configure an if/else statement to trigger the alerts but to make the system reliable and usable the alert should be capable to reach as many devices as possible given that the more places the alert sounds and alerts the best.